# Indeed-Analysis-Oct-2022-
Summary: Cleaning and analyzing scraped data from Indeed.com for Business Analyst, Data Analyst, and Data Scientist internships in October 2022. 

Background: I'm currently in graduate school studying Information Systems with a concentration in Business Analytics. I've worked in the Music Business for the past five years and decided it was time for a change. My hope is that this project displays some of the skills that I've learned over the course of the last year in school and provides valuable insights for me and others who are in search for internship opportunities in the Business Analytics, Data Analytics, and Data Science fields. 

Why: As mentioned above, I'm currently searching for an internship opportunity. I'm interested in several similarly related fields and trying to determine what's important to employers based on screening through hundreds of job postings on the internet is challenging. What skills are required? Are there specific coding languages that employers want interns to be familiar with? If so, which ones are the most important? How many internships are remote vs. in person? I had a lot of questions, so I decided to scrape information from Indeed.com to find some answers. 

What: I decided to use Octoparse to scrape the data from Indeed.com rather than building a program myself for a few reasons. First, web scraping is a skill that I am still working on improving. Building a program to scrape Indeed.com is something I will learn how to do one day but in this case, I found it to be very time consuming and doing so would risk the project going over my intended time constraint. Second, my goal with this project was to showcase some of the skills that I've learned in Python and Tableau rather than web scraping. Once I scraped all the information that I needed for internship opportunities related to Business Analytics, Data Analytics, and Data Science, I took the Excel files and transformed them by using Python. My format of choice for the code was Jupyter Notebook. Once I had transformed the original Excel files into a single data frame that fit my liking, I then extracted the data into another Excel file in which I connected to Tableau to create an interactive dashboard that showcased my findings. 

When: The project officially began on 10/20/22 and I finished it on 12/28/22. 

How: As mentioned above, I used tools such as Octoparse to scrape the data from Indeed.com. I then took the data and uploaded it into a Jupyter Notebook file using Python's Pandas tool. Once I had created a data frame that conisted of all the information that I thought would be useful to showcase, I extracted the dataframe into an Excel file which I connected to Tableau to create an interactive dashboard. 

Challenges: The initial challenge was determing how I was going to gather the data from Indeed.com. I decided against building my own web scraping program after spending a lot of time researching and learning about various methods for it to be successful. I was also hoping to avoid getting flagged by Indeed's anti-scraping software. Since I am a young programmer and the goal of the project was not to showcase by web scraping skills, I decided to use Octoparse to gather the information. The data collected from Indeed was helpful but messy and lacked specific columns of information that I would need to showcase my findings. Most of the heavy lifting related to cleaning the data was creating specific formats for the information since there was variation within each column. For example, within the location data, there was a various versions for each state. Outside of cleaning the data, I also wanted to create new columns that highlighted information found in the job description. Information such as whether or not the job posting mentioned Python, SQL, Machine Learning, etc. Even though the final Excel file that I exctracted from the Jupyter Notebook was easier to interpret, I still needed to create a number of calculated fields and adjust several number formats in Tableau for the data to be shown in percentages. 

Findings: Based on the information from Indeed.com between 10/20/22 - 10/22/22. There are a total of 1,415 internships that are a mix of Business Analytics, Data Analytics, and Data Science opportunities. Data Science consists of the majority of those at 718, followed by Data Analytics (400), and Business Analytics (297). Based on the distribution of the job postings that mentioned the highlighted skills, the most requested is Machine Learning (47.5%). However, it appears that since there are far more Data Science opportunities, the information was skewed more towards skills mentioned related to those specific job postings. Looking at the tools mentioned in the job postings, SQL appears to be the most requested of those mentioned at 31% of the time followed by Excel and Python. When observing the location data, California is the state with the largest number of in-person internships (167), followed by New York (98) and Texas (73). Lastly, in-person opportunities far outnumber remote and hybrid internships. It's important to note that the information related to the overall findings varies when diving into each specific type of internship. For example, while SQL is the most requested tool for interns to be familiar with when looking at the overall findings, Excel is by far the most mentioned when looking at Business Analyst positions and communication is the highest mentioned skill. Similar changes can be found within each type of internship. For Data Analyst positions, the most requested skill is Data Visualization while the highest mentioned tool is SQL followed by Excel. However, for Data Science opportunities, the skill with the highest number of mentions is machine learning and the most popular tool mentioned in the data is Python. 


